NBioBSP for AutoIt
==================

This lib is to work with Nitgen fingerprint scanners/readers that communicate through the NBioBSP interface.

Example:

```
$iDevices = _NEnumerate() ; Enumerate all devices
_NOpen() ; open device
$sCapture = _NCapture() ; It will generate a string with the fingerprint data (something like a password)
MsgBox(0, "Your fingerprint means:", $sCapture) ; Easy, huh?
```

[Full example](Example.au3)

Getting started
---------------

No worry, you will not need to save JPG or BMP images (although it's possible) and run heavy and complicated algorithms to recognize standards and blah blah. NGen already cares about everything and gives you a string (something like a "digital signature", "digital representation of the fingerprint" or even a "password generated by the fingerprint"). Just a simple string. Then you can save it on some file, database etc.

In order to start, you **must** install Nitgen SDK on your computer. Download it [here](http://www.nitgen.com.br/download/eNBSP_SDK_V4.861.zip) (it goes with many documentation in English language and example source codes in several languages - except AutoIt, BTW) and install from `<Zip file>\SDK\eNBioBSP\Windows\v4.861_x86\setup.exe`.

Although my system is x64, I only had success installing the x86 version of the SDK.

Functions
----

### _NEnumerate()
Enumerates all connected devices, saves them in the `$objDevicesList` scripting.dictionary object as device number => device ID and returns the number of connected devices.

### _NOpen( [ $iDevice = Default ] )
Opens a device for communicating (device ID is optional, and if not supplied, the latest connected device will be selected).

### _NClose ( [ $iDevice = Default ] )
Closes a device (you must do it before opening a new device).

### _NEnroll ( [ $sPayload = Null ] )
Registers a fingerprint (multiple fingers allowed) and returns its string (note that the lib will not save anything, and you must save the fingerprint strings (FIR) on your database or whatever else). The payload is an optional parameter that can be a string that will be put together onto the FIR string (useful for storing user ID or even name).

### _NCreateTemplate ( $sFIR , $sPayload )
Returns a new FIR with the payload changed to `$sPayload`.

### _NVerify ( $sStoredData )
Asks the user to put finger in the device and checks if it's equal to the FIR string provided as `$sStoredData`. Will return False if not equal, the payload string or True if equal.

### _NVerifyMatch ( $sGotFIR , $sStoredFIR )
Similar to _NVerify but it won't ask the user to put the finger on the reader. The FIR data will be supplied by you as ´$sGotFIR` (it can be the return value of _NCapture() or something from database). Returns the same as _NVerify.

### NCapture()
Ask the user to put his finger and captures it quickly, returning the FIR string (no payload will be added).

### _NSearch_Add( $sFIR , $iUserID )
Adds a new FIR and associated user ID (of your choice) for a search.

### _NSearch_Identify( $sFIR [ , $iSecurity = $NBioAPI_FIR_SECURITY_LEVEL_NORMAL ] )
Searches $sFIR (it can be the return value of _NCapture() or something from database) on the current search stack (managed with _NSearch_Add()) and returns the user ID whose fingerprint is equal to $sFIR or False if no one was found.

Contribute
----------

There's too much documentation about NBioBSP around the internet. Just take a look on it, it's not that hard. Then, feel free to clone and send pull requests :)


License
-------
```
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2016 Jefrey Sobreira Santos

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```